# GPT2 Model Training This project allows you to train a GPT2 language model from scratch. GPT2 (Generative Pre-trained Transformer 2) is a state-of-the-art language model developed by OpenAI that can generate human-like text. ## Table of Contents - [Features](#features) - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) - [Installation](#installation) - [Usage](#usage) - [Configuration](#configuration) - [Contributing](#contributing) - [License](#license) ## Features - Train a GPT2 model from scratch - Customize model architecture and hyperparameters - Support for various datasets - Efficient training with GPU acceleration - Checkpoint saving and loading - Generation of text samples during and after training ## Prerequisites - Python 3.7+ - CUDA-capable GPU (recommended for faster training) - NVIDIA drivers and CUDA toolkit (if using GPU) ## Installation 1. Clone this repository: ``` git clone https://github.com/yourusername/gpt2-model-training.git cd gpt2-model-training ``` 2. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended): ``` python -m venv venv source venv/bin/activate # On Windows, use `venv\Scripts\activate` ``` 3. Install the required packages: ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ``` ## Usage 1. Prepare your dataset and place it in the `data/` directory. 2. Configure the training parameters in `config.yaml`. 3. Start the training: ``` python train.py ``` 4. Monitor the training progress and generated samples in the console output. 5. After training, use the model to generate text: ``` python generate.py --prompt "Your prompt text here" ``` ## Configuration You can customize various aspects of the model and training process by editing the `config.yaml` file. Some key parameters include: - `model_size`: Size of the GPT2 model (small, medium, large) - `num_epochs`: Number of training epochs - `batch_size`: Batch size for training - `learning_rate`: Learning rate for the optimizer - `max_seq_length`: Maximum sequence length for input text Refer to the comments in `config.yaml` for more details on each parameter. ## Contributing Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
